F#src 2522 update manual (#5)
shadow-robot/sr_dexterous_hand_documentation: docs/user_guide/3_getting_started.md

>   permission to do things which can mess up the configuration of the PC. Do not run any

Reviewer: Could you replace the command for the following:
```bash
$ roslaunch sr_ethercat_hand_config sr_rhand.launch
```

  ```

## Graphical User Interface

The majority of functionality is provided by the software Application Programmer Interface (API). However, a few simple functions are provided in the Graphical User Interface (GUI) to test the hand, validate that it is working correctly, and adjust some of its settings.

### Starting the interface
You may open the Graphical User Interface to try out some functions of the hand. From the Docker terminal, type:
```bash
$ rqt
```

  This interface contains a number of plugins for interacting with the EtherCAT hand. Most of them are available from the **Plugins → Shadow Robot** menu.

### Robot Monitor
We can check that everything on the robot is working correctly using the Diagnostic Viewer.

  **Plugins → Robot Tools → Diagnotic Viewer**

  ![robot_monitor](../img/1-robotMonitor.png)

This brings up a dialog box containing a tree of all parts of the robot. All parts should be marked with a green tick.

You can examine one motor in detail by double-clicking on it. This brings up the Motor Monitor dialog. This window can be used to check the status of a motor, or debug any problems.

![monitor_single_motor](../img/2-monitorSingleMotor.png)

> 

Reviewer: Please add introduction to table. Something like: "In the following table, you can find description of the information available"

Force control F, P, I, D,
Imax, Deadband, Sign           These are the FPID gain settings used by the motor's torque controller. They can be changed using the controller tuner.
Last Measured Effort           Difference between the two gauge readings (Torque)
Last Commanded Effort          Torque requested by the host-side control algorithms
Encoder Position               The angle of the joint in radians (ROS always calls this Encoder position, even if the robot uses Hall effect sensors)
Firmware svn revision          xxxx: The latest version of the firmware available at build time
                               xxxx: The version of the firmware in the motor MCU
                               False: There are no un-checked-in modifications to this firmware. This should never be true.
============================   ==============================================================================================
```

### Controller tuner
It is possible to adjust the settings for any of the Position or Force (Motor) controllers.
	**Plugins → Shadow Robot → Basic → Controller Tuner**

  ![adjust_position_controller](../img/3-adjustPosController.png)

> 

Reviewer: Please add title: "Position controller"

>   Here you can select a finger, thumb or wrist joints, and adjust the different position control parameters. See 8.1 Control for details of these settings. Click ```Set Selected``` to send the new values to the motors and make them take effect.

Reviewer: Remove reference:
```suggestion
  Here you can select a finger, thumb or wrist joints, and adjust the different position control parameters. Click ```Set Selected``` to send the new values to the motors and make them take effect.
```

* **“P”, “I” & “D” terms:**  Gains parameter of the position PID controller. By default, Shadow tunes the paramenters using P or PD combinations. The user can add “I” gains in the control if he considers necessary.

* **Max_force:** This puts a limit on the output (PWM) value that will be sent from the host to the motor by the position controller. It can be useful when setting up a controller for the first time to limit the motor power to a safe level.

* **Position_Deadband:** The error is considered to be zero if it is within ±deadband. This value should be set as a little more than the noise on the sensor. The units of deadband are the same as the value being controlled. So, the deadband for a position controller is in radians.

> 

Reviewer: Add title: "Force controller"

Item                           Description
============================   ==============================================================================================
Full Name
Component
Hardware ID
Level
Message                        Any error or status messages
Motor ID                       This is the motor number. Range [0..19]
Motor ID in message            For debugging only
Strain Gauge Left / Right      These are the ADC readings from the two gauges
Executed Effort
Motor Flags                    See motor flags table below
Measured current               Current flowing through the motor (Amps)
Measured Voltage               The motor power supply voltage. Not the voltage at the motor
Temperature                    The temperature measured near the motor. The actual motor winding temperature will be higher than this. (ºC)
Number of CAN messages         Received messages should be twice the transmitted messages
Force control P, I, D terms    These are the PID terms from inside the motor's torque controller. They may be useful for debugging if plotted.

> Force control F, P, I, D,

Reviewer: This field appear in readthedocs as two rows, then one doesn't have description. We should also add description to the first fields as it looks weird that their description is empty.

Imax, Deadband, Sign           These are the FPID gain settings used by the motor's torque controller. They can be changed using the controller tuner.
Last Measured Effort           Difference between the two gauge readings (Torque)
Last Commanded Effort          Torque requested by the host-side control algorithms
Encoder Position               The angle of the joint in radians (ROS always calls this Encoder position, even if the robot uses Hall effect sensors)

> Firmware svn revision          xxxx: The latest version of the firmware available at build time

Reviewer: check if the xxxx can be starting each a new line as in readthedocs it is all in one line and it is difficult to read

Author: I've added two different fixes, let me know which you prefer

                               xxxx: The version of the firmware in the motor MCU
                               False: There are no un-checked-in modifications to this firmware. This should never be true.
============================   ==============================================================================================
```

### Controller tuner
It is possible to adjust the settings for any of the Position or Force (Motor) controllers.
	**Plugins → Shadow Robot → Basic → Controller Tuner**
#### Position controller
  ![adjust_position_controller](../img/adjust_position_controller.png)

  Here you can select a finger, thumb or wrist joints, and adjust the different position control parameters. Click ```Set Selected``` to send the new values to the motors and make them take effect.

> * **“P”, “I” & “D” terms:**  Gains parameter of the position PID controller. By default, Shadow tunes the paramenters using P or PD combinations. The user can add “I” gains in the control if he considers necessary.

Reviewer: "Gains parameter of the position PID controller." This sentence sounds weird to me. Could you propose a better way of defining this?

Author: ```suggestion
* **“P”, “I” & “D” terms:**  Gain parameters for the position PID controller. By default, Shadow tunes the parameters using P or PD combinations. The user can add “I” gains in the control if they consider it necessary.
```

* **Max_force:** This puts a limit on the output (PWM) value that will be sent from the host to the motor by the position controller. It can be useful when setting up a controller for the first time to limit the motor power to a safe level.

* **Position_Deadband:** The error is considered to be zero if it is within ±deadband. This value should be set as a little more than the noise on the sensor. The units of deadband are the same as the value being controlled. So, the deadband for a position controller is in radians.

#### Force controller
![adjust_torque_controller](../img/adjust_torque_controller.png)

> * **“P”, “I” & “D” terms:** Gains parameter of the torque PID controller. By default, Shadow tunes the paramenters using just P gain for the torque control.

Reviewer: same here

* **Max_PWM:** This puts a limit on the final PMW value that will be sent to the motor by the torque controller. It can be useful when setting up a controller for the first time to limit the motor power to a safe level.

* **Deadband:** The error is considered to be zero if it is within ±deadband. This value should be set as a little more than the noise on the sensor. The units of deadband are the same as the value being controlled. The deadband for a torgue controller is in the units of the strain gauges.

* **Torque_Limit:** This value is used to limit the PWM at the end of the control loop. The control algoritm reduces the final PWM that goes to the motor making sure that the force in the strain gauge doesn’t overcome this limit value.

Click ```Save``` to save your settings.

### Bootloader
The firmware in the motors MCUs can be updated from the PC, without opening up the motor base. This can be done from the GUI. Shadow will send you a new HEX if there is an update.
	**Plugins → Shadow Robot → Advanced → Motor Bootloader**

You will see a window listing each motor board, along with its current firmware SVN revision number.

> ![bootload_new_firmware](../img/bootloading_new_firmware.png)

Reviewer: In the document, there are captions for the figures. Could you check if there is an easy way to add them here too.

* **Select Bootloader Hex File:** Next, tell the plugin which firmware to use. The file you should choose here is the one sent by Shadow.

* **Select your motors:** Now you may choose which motors to program. Either select one or more motors using the tick boxes, or click the ```Select All``` or ```Deselect All``` button.

* **Program Motors:** Now you can click the ```Bootload Motors``` button. The process is fairly slow, and takes about a 30 second per motor.

### Change controllers

> Use the *Change Controllers* plugin to load one of the three different types of controllers set by default. Simply click on a controller type, and it will call a service from the pr2_controller_manager to unload the currently running controller if necessary, and load the one you've selected. See the chapter on control for details of these algorithms.

Reviewer: Remove reference:
```suggestion
Use the *Change Controllers* plugin to load one of the three different types of controllers set by default. Simply click on a controller type, and it will call a service from the pr2_controller_manager to unload the currently running controller if necessary, and load the one you've selected. 
```

  Tick the motors you wish to reset, and click ```Reset Motors```. You should see the corresponding joints jiggle as the motors auto-zero the strain gauges.

### Joint Sliders
A simple interface has been provided to control the position of each joint using a slider (you have to start the position control first).
	**Plugins → Shadow Robot → Joint Sliders**
    ![joint_sliders](../img/joint_sliders.png)

  A window with twenty sliders will appear. Moving any slider will cause the corresponding joint on the hand to move.

### Hand Calibration
This plugin is used internally by Shadow to calibrate the raw data from the position sensors.
	**Plugins → Shadow Robot → Basic → Shadow Hand Calibration**

  ![calibrating_joint_sensors](../img/calibrating_joint_sensors.png)

  It’s very unlikely that the sensors moved inside of the hand, BUT, if you find misalligments with the model and you require a re-calibration, contact Shadow Robot Company here: <support@shadowrobot.es>.

## Command line interface
All functions of the hand are available from the command line.
### Using rostopic

You can find all the information about the topic published in the Shadow Hand from this link:

> <https://shadowrobot.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/HANDEG/pages/63569986/Hand+E+ROS+Kinetic+Topics>

Reviewer: We need to remove this link and add the topics here.

Author: No problem. There's quite a lot of information on that topics page, would you like me to add all of it or just a particular subset?

### Using rosservice
To reset individual motors, E.G. FFJ3:
  ```bash
	$ rosservice call /realtime_loop/reset_motor_FFJ3
  ```
To change control modes, E.G. teach mode:
  ```bash
	$ rosservice call /realtime_loop/xxxxxx

>   ```

Reviewer: I am not sure about this. We will have to confirm that this is true

### Starting the interface
You may open the Graphical User Interface to try out some functions of the hand. From the Docker terminal, type:
```bash
$ rqt
```

  This interface contains a number of plugins for interacting with the EtherCAT hand. Most of them are available from the **Plugins → Shadow Robot** menu.

### Robot Monitor
We can check that everything on the robot is working correctly using the Diagnostic Viewer.

  **Plugins → Robot Tools → Diagnotic Viewer**

  ![robot_monitor](../img/robot_monitor.png)

This brings up a dialog box containing a tree of all parts of the robot. All parts should be marked with a green tick.

You can examine one motor in detail by double-clicking on it. This brings up the Motor Monitor dialog. This window can be used to check the status of a motor, or debug any problems.

![monitor_single_motor](../img/monitor_single_motor.png)

The following table has some more information on what each of these fields mean.

<!--
```eval_rst
============================   ==============================================================================================

> Item                           Description

Reviewer: The names of the columns should be Item and descritpion. I am not sure why in this first table "Full Name" seems to be the name of the first column
